hi again this is Robert with clean pool
and spa and in this video I want to
answer the question of can i backwash my
de filter too much and the answer to
that question is yes you can you can
cause yourself a whole host of problems
if you back wash your de filter too much
such as loss of de which is number one
each time you backwash you lose de which
means you're going to have to add more
de to the system to compensate for the
loss of de also when you backwash number
two is you lose around two to three
hundred gallons of water each time with
you back wash which is wasting water now
that water is leading the system which
means you're going to have to top the
system off with clean water which means
that your water bill is going to go up
and up and up and that's something that
you don't want to do you're gonna be
spending more money on water now as that
new water is going into the pool that's
going to go to number four you're
diluting all the other chemicals the the
pH and alkalinity and calcium hardness
and cyanuric acid is going to be
affected with constantly topping off
with new fill water and when that
happens your chemical bill is going to
go up and up and up as well because
you're going to hit via you're going to
have to add you're going to have to add
more chemicals to compensate for the
dilution of the new water that you're
putting in and number six ties in to
number one you're going to see an
increase in your de bill as well you're
going to have to be buying more de to
compensate for the the de that's been
back washed out if you put too much in
you're going to have to take the system
apart clean the grids put the system
about to get back together in and then
reach
the bridge with fresh de you're going to
be over using the de and that can put a
dent in your wallet pretty quickly and
also number seven it puts a little bit
more stress on your grids in filter as
well so you don't want to do that now
this begs the question of when should
you back wash your DE filter assuming
that you have a PSI gauge on your de
filter which he should and it's in good
working order you should back watch when
the system gets 8 to 10 pounds over
you're just back washed reading so get
the system set up look where the
pressure is and then once that pressure
gets 8 to 10 pounds over again you're
just backwash reading that's the time to
backwash again be sure that you have a
correct or a working PSI gauge that's
going to be your best friend to tell you
when to backwash so that's about it
please check the description box below
link to my website clean pools ba.com
lots of great information over there so
please like subscribe and comment I
think that's it Robert clean one spot be
safe and happy swimming by